# Masters-Dissertation
### Abstract 
This dissertation explores and evaluates the performance of various feature extraction algorithms engaged in unsupervised clustering tasks with free text data. The data employed in this research was provided by Centrepoint, a UK-based charity focused on ending youth homelessness. The directive of this project was to analyze data from the Centrepoint crisis helpline to identify segments of records sharing similar characteristics. Initial data exploration revealed most available categorical features were not suitable for Machine Learning due to the presence of null values, leading to a focus on Natural Language Processing. A variety of free text feature extraction algorithms were experimented on with pre-processed free text data, and the resulting features were employed to train an unsupervised k-means clustering model. Several limitations, including document length and complications surrounding the data collection process contributed to inconsistent performance from the entire of set feature extraction approaches. However, the key insight of this analysis is that the vectorization and sentence encoding feature extraction methods performed better than the more advanced deep transfer learning models, which provides insight into the data set characteristics most suited to various feature extraction frameworks. After each feature extraction method was tested, the evaluation criteria determined that a k-means clustering model fitted with features extracted by the TF-IDF model, run on the helpline data set produced the most robust results. This model produced ten distinct clusters and revealed that housing situation features produced the greatest share of inter-cluster variation. The distinctive characteristics of each cluster provided insight into current and prospective housing situations, reasons for contacting Centrepoint, and the most pressing current needs of these young people. 
